DataEngineer - Test - Intermediate (#27)
fulll/hiring: DataEngineer/Intermediate/README.md

## Intermediate Data Engineer test
### Context

> A supermarket stores their transaction data in a relational database for further analysis. The transaction data is uploaded to the system as an CSV file a few times per day. Each transaction has an unique `id`. As a data engineer, your task is to implement and maintain a pipeline to store the transaction data  in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A supermarket stores its transaction data in a relational database for further analysis. The transaction data is uploaded to the system as a CSV file multiple times per day. Each transaction has a unique `id`. As a data engineer, your task is to implement and maintain a pipeline to store the transaction data in the database.
```

### Elements
For the test, the following elements are provided:
- A sqlite database contains historical transactions data
- A csv file `retail_15_01_2022.csv` contains transaction data of 15/01/2022.
- The tax for all products is 20%.

### Requirements
#### Implement the ETL workflow
Your task is to implement the Python code to store the data from the CSV in the database.

As implementation is only half of the work for a Data Engineer, you're also asked to implement test cases to verify things work as expected. An example of test is provided in the file `test.py`. You need to complete it. Do not hesitate to add more relevant test cases.

#### Explore the data using SQL

> After loading the data in the system, the stakeholder want to extract some information. As a data engineer, you're in charge of the task. Please write the SQL query to answer the following questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After loading the data into the system, the stakeholder wants to extract some information. As a data engineer, you're in charge of the task. Please write the SQL query to answer the following questions:
```

> After loading the data in the system, the stakeholder want to extract some information. As an data engineer, you're in charge of the task. Please write the SQL query to answer the following questions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After loading the data in the system, the stakeholder want to extract some information. As a data engineer, you're in charge of the task. Please write the SQL query to answer the following questions:
```

> - What is the number of transaction on 14/01/2022?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What is the number of transactions on 14/01/2022?
```

- What is the total amount, including tax, of all `SELL` transactions?

> - Consider the product `Amazon Echo Dot`, what is the balance (`SELL` - `BUY`) by date?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consider the product `Amazon Echo Dot`, what is the cumulated balance (`SELL` - `BUY`) by date?
```

Author: This will change the difficulty of the question. You want the candidate to use Windows function to compute the sliding sums ?

Author: > We could add dates of transaction. Dates are always complex to navigate in python.

Yes, the data in the db contains the column transaction_date. I do not included it in the test so the candidate need to parse info from the file name to have it.

Reviewer: ok perfect for the dates. cumulated balance make more sense but is not mandatory.

Author: I separated into 2 questions. The `cumulated` balance is optional.

> - What is the number of transaction on 14/01/2022 ?
> - What is the total amount, including tax, of all `SELL` transactions ?
> - Consider the product `Amazon Echo Dot`, what is the balance (`SELL` - `BUY`) by date ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What is the number of transaction on 14/01/2022?
- What is the total amount, including tax, of all `SELL` transactions?
- Consider the product `Amazon Echo Dot`, what is the balance (`SELL` - `BUY`) by date?
```

#### Deployment (optional)

> Of course, the workflow cannot run on the machine of developers, we need to deploy it and automate the process. Can you list the necessary elements of such a system ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of course, the workflow cannot run on the developer's machine, we need to deploy it and automate the process. Can you list the necessary elements of such a system ?
```
